What we've seen up to now is one
way to create objects in JavaScript
using function constructors.
But we've already seen that function
constructors were designed to mimic other
languages that don't implement
prototypical inheritance, and
so they're a little awkward.
Other languages implement something called
classes, where a class defines what
an object should look like and then you
use the new keyword to create the object.
And that's what function
constructors are trying to mimic.
On the other hand,
many consider it better to simply focus
on the fact that JavaScript does
use prototypal inheritance, and
not what's called classical inheritance,
and accept it, embrace it.
And so yet another way to create
objects that doesn't try to mimic other
programming languages, and it's something
that newer browsers all have built in.
It's called Object.create.
So let's look at it and
think about pure prototypal inheritance.
I'm gonna go ahead and create a new
object using object literal syntax.
And I'll give it a first name of Default.
A last name I'll just call it Default.
And let's do this time a greet method.
And it's going to return
Hi + this.firstname.
Got that?
By the way, I have to use this, the this
keywords when I'm referencing the object.
If I didn't use the this
keyword it would look for
it in this function context,
when executed, this execution context.
Not find it, and
go out to the global execution context.
And it wouldn't find first name there,
because it's inside the person object.
And objects don't create new
execution context, just to be clear.
So if you accidentally forget the this
variable in a method on an object,
then it's probably because you forgot that
this variable that you're getting errors.
All right, so, moving on,
I have this object.
Now I'm going to use something
built in to more modern browsers
to create a new object.
Again, this is all about building objects.
And it's all building the same things.
I'm not changing how things work,
but how I can construct them.
So I want to build an object,
a new one, and set its prototype.
So I'm gonna create john,
and I'm going to go, object.
That's that base object
concept in JavaScript,
.create and I pass it a person.
I'm gonna pass it the object
I want to create from.
Now what does this create for
me when I do this?
Well let's console.log(john).
This is built in to the JavaScript engine.
So I have an object.
But notice my object is completely empty.
There's nothing there.
And its prototype is the person object,
the first name,
the greet method and last name.
See that?
So Object.create creates an empty
object with its prototype
pointing at whatever you
passed into Object.create.
So if I go john.greet I just get default.
And the pattern is that you override
whatever you want to by simply
adding the properties and
methods yourself to the created object.
So if I want to hide those default
values I simply create the same
name of the property or
method on my new object.
And since the JavaScript engine travels
down the prototype chain looking for
a property or method until it finds it,
it'll simply find it on this object and
not move down the chain.
So if I refresh this,
now I have my first name and
last name on my john object,
and I still have my prototype,
which means I can call john.greet() and
it works with my updated values.
And that's it.
That's pure prototypal inheritance.
There is no other concept that tries
to define how an object is structured.
You simply make objects and
then create new objects from them pointing
to other objects as their prototype.
If you want to define a new object,
you create a new object that
becomes the basis for all others.
And then you simply override,
hide properties and
methods on those created objects by
setting the values of those properties and
methods on the new objects themselves.
Make sense?
So I can keep my methods
on that base object.
I can add new methods and
properties to my base object and
all my created objects using
Object.create will suddenly get them.
This is pure prototypal inheritance and
it drives some people crazy cuz it's so
simple.
But when you start to use it in real world
scenarios, you'll see it's just lovely.
You don't have a lot of confusion,
a lot of verbosity.
It's very straightforward, and
it's very powerful because you can mutate,
you can change the prototype
along the way.
Make sense?
All right, now we said that this was...
A newer thing that modern browsers,
that's JavaScript engines and
more newer browsers are implementing.
But what if you are involved in a project
that requires you to support users that
are on older browsers, or maybe an older
environment where the JavaScript
engine doesn't support Object.create,
it doesn't have it.
Well you can use what's called polyfill.
And Big Word Alert, polyfill,
it sounds complicated.
Not really.
A polyfill is code that adds
a feature which the engine may lack.
So whatever code you're dealing with,
because there's usually
different versions of engines.
For example, there's older and
newer browsers, Internet browsers, so
they have older and
newer JavaScript engines.
We can have some code that checks to
see if the engine has a feature, and
if it doesn't we write some code that
does the same thing that that new
feature would do in the newer browsers.
So I'm filling in the gaps where
an older engine might not have
some features that the newer features do.
So let's look at Object.create.
What if I'd like to use
Object.create in my project but
I'm forced to support some older browsers
that don't have Object.create built in.
Their JavaScript engines
don't have this built in.
Am I done?
Do I have to use function constructors?
No.
In a lot of cases for
a lot of features there are things
called these polyfills.
I'm gonna drop on in here and you can
see how it uses some of the things we've
learned to fill in the gaps for
any engines that don't have the feature.
So I'm checking to see
if Object.create exists.
Why?
Because if it doesn't exist what will this
value be?
Undefined, and
then I use the not operator,
that's what's called a unary operator.
Meaning that it only takes one
parameter and then returns the reverse.
Other operators like the greater
than operator are called
binary operators because they take
two parameters, one on each side.
There is one other special type of
operator called a ternary operator
that takes three parameters.
But anyway I'm digressing here a bit.
The idea that this operator will take
Object.create and if the browser
already has this, this will be a function,
and if it doesn't it will be undefined.
Either case it will be
coerced to a Boolean.
And so this whole if statement will be
skipped, if this exists in the browser.
If the JavaScript engine already has this,
but if it doesn't,
if this is undefined, it will run this
statement, which will add this object and
function to the global object.
All right, so we have this idea, right?
So the create will get added to that base
object, which is on the global object.
So what is this polyfill
doing if I'm using an older
JavaScript engine that
doesn't have Object.create?
Well it takes an object,
just makes sure that there's one argument.
But this is the important part,
it creates an empty function.
And then sets the prototype,
that variable of prototype that is used
for function constructors, and sets it
equal to the object that you passed in.
So you can completely
overwrite this prototype,
set it to whatever object you want.
And any objects created using
the function constructor will get this
as its proto property.
All right, so this returns a new,
it uses the new keyword.
And then a new empty function here,
which is just a constructor function.
So, if we think about what this is doing.
The new creates an empty object,
it runs this function, which is empty and
points the prototype of that new empty
object to whatever you passed in.
And that's exactly what
Object.create is supposed to do.
You give it an object, and that becomes
the prototype of a new empty object.
So this just fills in the same
functionality that we would
expect to see in the browser.
So this is a polyfill.
I'll just put it there.
Put a comment.
Polyfill.
And if your browser has this,
has Object.create, then,
don't need to worry about it, it's there
it'll just get skipped and we can use it.
All right so let's go back to thinking
about the usage of Object.create.
I create an object that forms the basis
of my constructing all other objects.
This is an object unto itself.
Then I use Object.create just to
create other versions of it, and
then can overwrite it or
hide its properties.
So, this is pure prototypal inheritance.
It's not trying to squeeze in any other
concepts from other programming languages.
It's just, create an object, and
then use that object as the prototype for
other objects.
Very simple, very straightforward.
And yet, if you think, oh, this is too
simple, stop and realize the power
of being able to mutate,
to change the prototype on the fly.
You can add features depending
on what features you need for
example, at any point in the application.
It opens up a freer approach
to constructing objects.
And you're not unnecessarily creating
complex layers and interactions.
So, try it out.
Try it for yourself.
Try Object.create.
Try thinking purely prototypal and
see how it works for you.
Let's move on.